Welcome back.
Let's finish our discussion on cashing on the blind side because we already know how to do caching here.
It's really really dependent on your application on how you want to implement it.
Now with the browser though there's a nice standard that we can use and I showed you with good pages
in our Robur friends app how we're able to cache using create re-act apps bundling techniques and also
service worker.
But what if you actually control the server unlike how pages are Roble France that is purely Front-End.
What if you have an Express server and you need to cache contents Well we can take advantage of the
GTP cache that comes with all browsers.
You see we have the browser over here and blue and the server over here.
And if we do a get requests to a file and point the browser initially makes a request to the server
and the server.
If you remember always responds with something let's say a Jaisalmer response that says success or some
sort of data.
But along with this response usually also send headers that with Express come by default.
Or you can manually configure them if you have things like Content-Length But then you have these two
things that we use for caching.
One is cache control and the other one is E-Tec and using these headers that we send from the server.
We can tell the browser what to cache how to catch it and when to not catch it.
So let's explore that topic.
I have over here a very very simple server that I've created.
Now let's go through the code.
Usually I like writing this out by myself but this was something that we've already done a ton of times
with Express servers so I don't want to bore you with just started from scratch.
All we care about are these two endpoints that are new and we haven't seen before the end point high
and the endpoint static.
Now there might be some new code that we haven't seen here before so let's go over it.
The first one static is an endpoint that we're adding and it's a middleware and this is how you serve
static web sites an express or static files and express all we're saying is serve the Express use the
express static method to serve the file that is in the public folder and you see over here that I've
created a public folder with index that a Shyamal which is a very very simple.
A shame Alpha.
If I go back to the server I'm going to make this a little bit bigger.
I'm going to make this a little bit bigger.
There you go.
All I'm saying is at this point serve this index start a mouthful.
And I've also added the option that is Max H and in express the way you define this cache control Hetter
is to simply say what's the max age and max age means.
How many seconds do you want the browser to remember this content.
This data that we're sending.
So in our case we're saying I want MacSpeech to be two hours and I can say two hours or two days a year
or I can do it.
I can give it a number that is in milliseconds.
And I guess let's just leave it a two hours.
So I'm saying at this point I want you to remember this resource for two hours.
So let's test this out.
It's a simple server that's running this.
That's going to serve me our index Alpha.
Let's have a look.
If I go to localhost and we go to the static and point I get my website that says Catch Me Baby One
More Time If I open up the developer tools and I refresh.
I see that these static file over here returned a three or four instead of a 200.
Now three or four if I hover over it see you see that it's not modified.
And if I refresh again it's Keef's saying not modified.
If I do a hard refresh refresh with MT-NW cache I get 200.
That means it went all the way to the server and back again.
And return me this information.
So what does three or four not modified mean if I open up our static contents and I scroll to the headers
I see that oh here's my big cache control header that Avocet.
So two hours is this many seconds.
And we also see the e-TAG field and the three or four not modified is what we get when the e-TAG automatically
generated through Express says that nothing has modified in this file and it says that usually with
something that is a hash it's a randomly generated number that if nothing changes in our index file
file will stay the same.
So if we remember this number I'm going to change something in our index at a shim Alpha Let's go to
index that A.P.M. and add some exclamation marks here.
I'm going to save.
And now when I go back and refresh
I get 200.
Once again
because my e-tag now is completely different.
Just to make sure that we did that right.
I'm going to press enter again.
And I get three or four because now I've already cashed this information this e-tag is the same again
if I go back and change it to just the period go back and refresh I now get 200.
And the e-TAG is once again ending in 3 0.
Changing an exclamation marks five refresh the e-TAG now and then 5.
All right so that's three or four the not modified request.
And what that means is the browser makes that request to my server express server and says Hey but I
have this e-tag thing has the resource changed the Express server says no no no this is the tag that
I have the file hasn't changed so you can go ahead and use whatever's in your cache.
That is the deep cache of this Web site.
How cool is that.
Now here's the interesting part because I've cached this file or this endpoint that is.
That gives me the index not a shame I'll fall for two hours if I now close this and open up a new window.
And I just go to localhost three thousand two static and I open up the developer tools first and I go
to static.
I get 200.
But it's a little bit greyed out.
And if I go all the way to the right I see that it's from disk.
Because we cache this if I don't visit this Web site for two hours and I come back I won't get this
because I've told it Hey I only wanted to cash just for two hours.
Very very cool.
Now just as an extra example.
And also just to introduce some new syntax that is a little bit more advanced.
What we have here of serving index not a shame.
All I can do in similar fashion this way as well.
I said headers so I use response headers and I'm using Express 4.00 API here.
Express has changed this depending on the version that you use so just heads up.
You'll have to go to the Express documentation.
It might be set headers or some different method.
But I can change the header to say cache control.
I want this resource to be public and max age of I believe this is maybe a day and I can also say that
the header is Content-Type tax a shemale.
And then I send the response using what we call a new buffer and this is something that comes in node
and a buffer allows us to send a shemale strings over the wire so they can be read by the browser and
underneath the hood.
This is what serving static files is like.
It's using this new buffer but if I go to the high end point now and remember this Max Page that I've
just created a 6 4 0 0 I'll go to the high end point and I see that the high end point I get the test
strength that I've just sent and then I also get to look at that cache control max age 8 6 4 0 0 and
I have my e-tag as well and there you have it.
If I go back here to let's go to Product Hunt and this product and if I open up the Network tab we have
now an idea of what it does.
If I scroll up here to let's say the mail page I can see that all right there look at that.
Using CloudFlare as their CDN they're using content encoding B.R. but if I scroll down I also see that
they have cache control of Max h 0.
That means they don't want to cached and we now have a way to read our headers and understand what is
going on what about their API doesn't mean dodgy.
Yes I see that.
Oh yeah they're definitely caching that.
And there's also an e-tag associated with it.
And you can start to understand what each web site does in terms of caching but to wrap this up when
it comes to caching you can implemented in all levels of your stack.
It's not just one place.
It's not just the browser.
It's not just with a CD and they can cache he can cache anywhere that you see fit for your application.
You'll most likely start with something like the front end with the cache control and the tags and using
service workers maybe using a CDN CloudFlare and then you might want to move into actually using rattus
for caching database queries or perhaps caching expensive API calls that take a long time.
It is really up to you as a developer to implement but as we know when it comes to performance you only
want to start working on a problem on maybe a cache solution when there is a measurable test that we
can implement that we can for sure know that if we implemented this cache method that it is going to
significantly improve our application and our user experience I'll see in the next video.